# SNAKE-GAME-USING-HAND-GESTURES
SNAKE GAME USING HAND GESTURES


Abstract:
The major goal of this system is to demonstrate how a computer game may be played using human gestures. The secondary goal of this system is to develop a system that enables a player to play a game without the use of a physical controller. The goal of this system is to create a gesture recognition application. The system's camera or webcam may be used to identify human hand gestures. The programme includes a set of instructions for recognising human hand motions. The movements must be performed on the palms of the hands. The system will be divided into three modules: user interface, gesture recognition, and analysis. The user interface module provides the user with all of the necessary graphical user interface to record the arm positions that will be utilised to conduct gestures. To identify gestures, utilise the gestures recognition module. Finally, depending on the estimated analysis, the analysis module will evaluate the human hand gesture and conduct game controls. A totally reliable hand gesture recognition system is still being researched and developed. This system effort might be viewed as a tiny step toward laying the groundwork for future development.
Keywords: MediaPipe, TensorFlow, cv2, Pygame, PyAutogui

Introduction:
Over the last decade, computer technology has advanced dramatically and has become an essential element of daily life. The keyboard is the most important computer accessory for Human Computer Interaction. In some real-world scenarios, such as Human Robot Interaction, the keyboard is unsuitable for Human Computer Interaction. The use of hand gestures is the most natural and intuitive approach for Human Computer Interaction that is a feasible alternative for the computer keyboard. This system is thus intended to investigate and build a Computer Control system based on hand gestures. To fully utilise the capabilities of a camera, it may be utilised for vision-based computer control, completely eliminating the need for a computer keyboard. Motion controllers are the way of the future in gaming. Hand gestures are particularly intuitive and effective for one-on-one engagement with computers, and they create a Natural User Interface.
